Модуль 1
Put across = communicate succesfully; The lecturer managed to put his ideas across to the audience. доносить информацию
Put aside/by = save; He puts aside $50 a month for his summer holidays. сохранить, сберечь (о деньгах)
Put away = store  or Put sb into prison; Put the toys away in the cupboard. Were expecting guests tonight or The murderer was put away for 10 years. хранить, запрятать, посадить в тюрьму
Put down = write down or criticise or suppress forcibly; Make sure you take down everything said at the meeting or Tony is always putting me down and saying im not fast enough in sports or The police try to put down rioting at  football games. записывать, критиковать, подавлять
Put down to = attribute to; She puts her recent success down to hard work and dedication. соотносить
Put forward = propose He put forward a new plan to; help decrease unemployment. выдвигать, предлагать
Put off = displease or postpone; | don't like amusement parks, the long lines really put me off. The meeting wos put off due to the president's illness. не нравится, откладывать
Put on = dress oneself in or increase  (in weight) or cause to take place  (show/performance); Put on your coat and come with me. He has put on weight since he stopped working. They are putting on “My Fair Lady” on Broadway next month. надевать, набирать (вес), ставить (постановку)
Put out = extinguish  (fire etc) or cause inconvenience; The firefighters put out the fire quickly.| hope I'm not putting you out by asking you to do this. тушить (пожар), раздражать, приносить неудобства
Be put out = be annoyed; She was put out by his bad behaviour. раздраженный
Put through = connect by phone; Can you put me through to Mr. Jones, please. соединять (по телефону)
Put up = erect or offer hospitality or show in a public place or build; They've put up a statue in the square. When you are in town, Ill put you up in my house. The WWF has put up posters all around the city. показывать на публику, разместить у себя, строить 
Put up with = tolerate; | won't put up with such rude behaviour any longer. терпеть
See about = deal with or see to; I'll see about the food if you get the table ready. отвечать за что-то
See off = accompany a traveller to his/her plane, train, etc; When she left for Berlin her parents saw her off at the station. провожать до места отбытия
See out = accompany sb to the door/exit of a house/building; Don’t bother to see me out, i can find my own way. провожать до двери
See over = inspect a place or look around; Can i see over the flat before I make my decision. Осматривать
See through = not be deceived; He was such a poor liar that they saw through him at once. видеть насквозь
See through to = finish an unpleasant project or event; I didn’t like my piano class after a couple of weeks, but i decided to see it through to the end. закончить делать что-то скучное или неинтересное
See to = deal with; I usually clear the table, while my sister sees to washing the dishes. позаботиться о чем-то
Be made for = suit exactly; Buy this dress - it’s simply made for you. быть сделанным для
Make off = escape, leave; The criminal made off before the police arrived. сбежать
Make out = distinguish, pretend, write out; I can't make out what the name on the bell is. Karen made out like she was the one who bought the gift. Please make the check out to Norman Brothers Ltd. разобрать, притворяться, выписывать чек
Make over = give possession of sth to sb else; Before their uncle died he made over his whole estate to them. оставить наследство
Make up = invent or put cosmetics on or reconcile; That is not true she made the whole thing up. She made herself up before she went out. Thank goodness they've made up after their quarrel. изобретать, краситься, мириться
Make up for = compensate; The good summer weather is making up for the bad winter. компенсировать
Make up one’s mind = decide; She can't make up her mind whether to go to Spain or Italy. решить, определиться
Set about = begin to do; He set about fixing the door while she cleaned the house. начать делать что-то
Set aside = save for a special purpose; She sets aside $20 a week to buy a car. откладывать (деньги)
Set back = move the hands of a clock/ watch to show an earlier time or hinder;  We usually set the clocks back one hour at the beginning of autumn. The fire has set our plans back. переводить часы, сдвинуть или изменить планы
Set in =  (of weather) start and seem likely to continue; The rain seems to have set in. начаться и продолжаться (о погоде)
Set off/out = start a journey; We'll set off/out for the airport at 7 am. отправляться в путешествие
Set on =  (cause to) attack; He threatened to set the dogs on us if we didn’t leave. натравить, заставить напасть
Set out = describe in better detail; Your points are good, but you need to set out your suggestions better. описывать в деталях
Set to = begin working hard; Get the duster and set to - there's lots of work to do before our visitors arrive. начать работать усерднее
Set up = start a business; She left her job to set up her own business. начать свое дело (бизнес)
Take away = remove; May i take away the dirty dishes now. переместить, унести
Take back = apologise; He took back his remarks about her cooking because she was obviously upset. извиняться, брать слова назад
Take down = write down; Can you take down notes during the meeting. записывать, делать пометки
Take for = identify wrongly; Sorry, i took you for your brother I always mix you up. определить неправильно, перепутать
Take in = give accommodation or fully understand or trick or make clothes narrower; Seaside vilogers often take in tourists as paying guests or Now that I've lost weight I should take my clothes in or Did you take in what I said or should I repeat it or My sister is rather naive, she's always getting taken in by other people's lies. приспособиться, обмануть (разыграть), сдалать одежду меньше (ушить), полность понять   
Take off = become very successful or remove clothes or  leave the ground or take time as a vacation; Hybrid cars have not been popular, but now they are really starting to take off. Take off this dirty dress ond I'l wash it for you. We saw the plane take off and disappear into the clouds. He took three days off work to go and see his parents. стать успешным, раздеться (снять одежду), оторваться от земли (взлететь), взять время для отдыха или отпуска
Take on = undertake work/responsibilityb or employ; He took on an extra class as the previous teacher had quit. They decided to take on two extra assistants during the sales period. Выполнять работу, нанимать на работу
Take out = remove or clean  (mark, dirt); The dentist took out my bad tooth. Use this spray to take out the stain. Удалить, очистить  (отметины, грязь)
Take over = gain control of sth or to start being responsible for sth that sb else was doing or working before you;  Shell take over the company when her father retires. Tony will take over the family business when his father retires. Брать под коннтроль, перенимать
Take to = begin a habit or like; I don’t know why she's taken to biting her nails. She has really taken to her nephew and always buys him expensive presents. Завести привычку
Take up = begin a hobby, sport, job or fill; When he retired, he took up saiing as « hobby. This sofa takes up most of the living room. Начать заниматься чем-то (хобби), занимать (пространство)
Модуль 2
Keep away  (from) = stay away; She had to be kept away from school as she had measles. Держаться подальше
Keep back = conceal; How did she manage to keep back her true feelings. Скрывать
keep down = cause to remain at a lower level or not eating or drinking without vomiting; The government is trying to keep prices down. When i had the flu, I couldn't keep anything down for two days. Удерживать цены нанизком уровне, не есть и не пить
Keep in = make sb stay indoors  (as Punishment); The teacher kept us in for misbehaving in class. Запререть или оставить кого-то (как наказание)
Keep off = stay away from or avoid; Keep off the benches. The paint is wet. Держаться подальше
Keep on = continue despite difficulties; Although he failed his test, he kept on studying and retook it in May. Продолжать, несмотря на трудности
Keep out = exclude sb/sth; He locked the gate to keep out unwanted visitors. Исключить кого-то
Keep up  (with) = stay at the same level as sb/sth; Despite being ill he kept up with his work and passed the exam. Оставаться на одном уровне
Keep up with = continue to be informed; He reads a newspaper every day to keep up with the news. Продолжать получать информацию
Bring about = cause to happen; The end of the war brought about great changes. Причина какого - то события
Bring round to = cause to regain consciousness or bring to or persuade or bring over; They poured cold water on her face to bring her round. She tried to bring him round to her point of view. Привести в сознание, убедить, привсти в чувство
Bring back = cause to recall; This smell brings back childhood memories. Повод, чтобы что-то вспомнить
Bring down = cause to fall; The measures brought down the government. Причина падения
Bring forward = move sth to an earlier date or time; The exam date was brought forward by week. Перенести что - то на более ранее время
Bring in = create profitimoney; His plan brought in lots of money. Создать дополнительную прибыль
Bring on = cause, usu sth unpleasant; The damp weather brought on his cold. Причина чего - то неприятного
Bring out = put on the market; The new shampoo will be brought out next May. Выставить на продажу
Bring up = raise a child or mention/introduce a subject; She was brought up by her grandparents os her parents were abroad. You shouldn't have brought that matter up in front of Steve. Вырастить ребенка, дисциплинировать
Look after = take care of; My mother looks after my son when I'm at work. Ухаживать за
Look back  (on) = consider the past; My grandfather likes to look back on his army days. Вспоминать прошлое 
Look down on = x  (opp: look up to); She looks down on Steve because he isn’t rich. Не обращать внимания
Look forward to = anticipate with pleasure; I'm really looking forward to my brother's wedding. Ждать с нетерпением 
Look in on sb = pay a short visit to; I look in on my mother on my way home. Навестить
Look into = investigate; The police are looking into the case of the smuggled diamonds.Исследовать
Look on = observe; He was just looking on while the other two were playing. Наблюдать со стороны
Look out = be careful Look out! There's 4 car coming. Берегись
Look out for = be alert in order to see/find sb/sth; When you're cleaning the flat, please look out for my silver earring. I lost it somewhere. Быть бдительным, поискать
Look over = examine carefully or go through; The judge looked over the evidence before passing judgement. Изучать внимательно
Look through = look at quickly; Look through these books and see if you want any of them. Быстро проходить
Look up = look for information in an appropriate booklist; Look up her number in the phone book. Искать информацию в источнике
Look up to = admire sb; I look up to my dad because he's a very smart man. Восхищаться
Come across = find/meet by chance; Come across this ring in on antique shop. Встретить
Сome around = visit casually or recover consciousness or happen again or be persuaded to change your mind; Come around any time for coffe. To the doctors surprise the patient come around quickly. Easter comes around early this year, doesnt it. Im beginning to come around to your way of thinking. Навестить случайно, прийти в сознание, повторить это снова, передумать
Сome by = obtain; Everybody wonders how he came by so much money. Получать
Сome down with = become ill; Go down with I'm sure I'm coming down with the flu. заболеть
Сome forward = appear and offer help or information; A witness came forward and described the events of the crime.  Предложить помощь или помочь с информацией 
Сome into = inherit; He came into a large sum of money after his grandfather died. Наследовать
Come off = succeed; Despite all his planning the deal didnt come off. Успешно
Сome on = make progress or begin broadcasting; The project has really come on quickly in the last two days. The new series comes on Channel 4 in an hour. Добиться прогресса, начать вещание
Сome out = begin to blossom or be published or be able to be removed; Roses come out in summmer. When does his new book come out. This wine stain will come out if you let it soak in warm water. Начать цвести, опубликовать книгу, вывести (пятно)
Сome over = visit; Come over for dinner tomorrow night. Прийти в гости 
Сome to = amount to a total; The bil came to £50. Дойти до максимума
Come up = be mentioned or rise or occur; His name came up in the conversation. Such an opportunity comes up once in a lifetime. Быть упомянутым, Случаться (возможность)
Сome up to = approach; A strange man came up to me and asked me for money. Подойти
Сome up with = find  (an answer, solution etc.); He came up with brilliant plan to save the company. Найти  (решение)
Get on = enter or make progress;  Get on the bus before it stats. He's getting on well at school. Сесть на  (автобус, поезд), прогрессировать
Get on with = be on good terms with; She gets on well with her friend Lucy. Быть в хороших отношениях
Get out = become known; How did the news of his promotion get out?. Стать известным
Get over = recover from; He's trying hard to get over the death of his wife. Смириться
Get through = finish or go on living through difficult times; Ive got to get through this chapter before i go out. How did people get through World War 2. Закончить (какую-то часть работы), пережить
Get through to = reach by phone; Did you get through to your dentist or wil you call him later. Договриться по телефону, дозвониться
Get up = rise from bed; What time did you get up today?. Встать с кровати
Get across = successfully communicate ideas; The teacher got his message across by using diograms. Доносить мысль
Get along = continue despite difficulties; She getting along fine despite all her problems. Продолжать, несмотря на трудности
Get along with = be on friendly terms; They get along with each other despite their differences. Быть в хороших отношениях, ладить
Get around to = find time to do sth; I haven't got around to writing that letter yet. Найти время для чего-то
Get at = mean; I don't know what you're getting at by saying such things. Иметь ввиду
Get away with = escape punishment for a wrongful;  He got away with o fine of nly £30. Избежать наказания
Get back = recover possession of; She managed to get back the ring she had lost a month before. вернуть
Get by = manage to live; My paycheck is small, but I can get by on it. Выживать на какую - то сумму
Get down = swallow with difculty or depress; I cant get this steak down, its very tough. This rainy weather gets me down. Преодолевать трудности, упасть духом
Get down to = start doing sth seriously; Its time you got down to looking for a better job. Начать делать что-то с серьезными намерениями
Модуль 3
Keep away (from) = stay away; She had to be kept away from school as she had measles. Держаться подальше
Keep back = conceal; How did she manage to keep back her true feelings? Скрывать
Keep down = cause to remain at a lower level or not eating or drinking without vomiting; The government is trying to keep prices down. When i had the flu, i couldn't keep anything down for two doys. Удерживать на низком уровне, есть или пить без желания
Keep in = make sb stay indoors; The teacher kept us in for misbehaving in class. Заставить кого-то отсаться (как наказание)
Keep off = stay away from; Keep off the benches.The paint is wet. Не подходить близко
Keep on = continue despite difficulties; Although he failed his test he kept on studying end retook it in Mey. Продолжать несмотря на трудности
Keep out = exclude sb/sth; He locked the gate to keep out unwanted visitors. Исключить кого-то
Keep up  (with) = stay at the same level as sb/sth; Despite being i'll he kept up with his work and passed the exam. Держаться на одном уровне
Keep up with = continue to be informed; He reads newspaper every day to keep up with the news. Быть информированным
Carry out = conduct an experiment; They carried out some tests to see the effects of the new drug. Проводить эксперимент
Сarry through = complete successfully; I don't think anyone but Matt can carry this project through. Справиться успешно
Be carried away = be very excited; They were all carried away by his performance. Быть восхищенным
Carry off = handle a difficult situation successfully; She carried her speech off well. Справляться
Carry on  (with) = continue with; Carry on with your work while we are out. Продолжать заниматься
Give away = reveal or give sth free of charge; Promise not to give away my secret. She gave away most of her Clothes to the poor. Не выдавать, поддерживать
Give back = return; Give me back the money or ill sue you. Возвращать
Give in = surrender or yield; He finaly gave in and admitted he was wrong. Остаться, уступать
Give off = emit  (smells, heat, fumes exc); The radiators give off lots of heat. Выдавать, производить
Give out = come to an end or distribute; Their supplies gave out halfway through the climb. They were giving out free samples of the new shampoo at the supermarket. Заканчиваться, распространять
Give up = abandon an attempt/habit or surrender; He gave up smoking last year and hasn't smoked since. The thieves gave themselves up to the police. Бросить, сдаться
Come across = find/meet by chance; | came across this ring in an antique shop. Наткнуться
Come around = visit casually or recover consciousness or happen again  (for regular events) or be persuaded to change your mind  (about); Come around any time for coffee. To the doctors surprise the patient came around quickly. Easter comes around early this year, doesnt it?. Im begining to come around to your way of thinking. Навестить случайно, прийти в сознание, повторить это снова, передумать
Come by = obtain; Everybody wonders how he came by so much money. Заходить
Come down with = become ill; go down with im sure im coming down with the flu. Заболеть
Come forward = appear and offer help or information; A witness came forward and described the events of the crime. Выступать
Сome into = inherit; He came into a large sum of money after his grandfather died. Наследовать
Come off = succeed; Despite all his planning the deal didnt come off. Идти по плану
Come on = make progress or begin broadcasting; The project has really come on quickly in the last two days. The new series comes on Channel 4 in an hour. Продвигаться, начать трансляцию
Сome out =  (of Fowers) begin to blossom or be able to removed or be published; Roses come out in summer. This wine stain will come out if you let it  soak in warm water. When does his new book come out. Распускаться, выпускать, сходить
Come over = visit; Come over for dinner tomorrow night. Прийти к кому- то
Come to = amount to a total: The bill came to £50. Приходить (про чек)
Come up = be mentioned or arise or occur; His name came up in the conversations. Such an opportunity comes up once in a lifetime. Быть упомянутым, возникать
Come up to = approach; A strange man came up to me and asked me for money. Подошел
Come up with = find; He came up with a brilliant plan to save the company. Находить решение
Put across = communicate successfully or get across/over; The lecturer managed to put his ideas across to the audience. Перевозить
Put aside/by = save; He puts aside $50 a month for his summer holidays. Отложить
Put away = store or put sb Into prison mental hospital; Put the toys away in the cupboard. We're expecting guests tonight. The murderer was put away for 10 years. Убирать, Сажать в тюрьму
Put down = write down or take down or criticise or suppress forcibly; Make sure you take down everything said at the meeting. ony is always putting me down and saying i'm not fast enough in sports. The police try to put down rioting at football games. Опустить, записать, критиковать, подавить
Put down to = attribute to; She puts her recent success down to hard work and dedication. Снижать
Put forward = propose; He put forward a new plan to help decrease unemployment. Выдвигать
Put off = displease or postpone; I don't like amusement parks. The long lines really put me off. The meeting was put offdue to the president illnes. Не нравиться, откладывать
Put on = dress oneself in or increase or cause to take place; Put on your coat and come with me. He has put on weight since he stopped working. They are putting on "My Fair lady"on Broadway next month. Надевать, набирать, проводить
Put out = extinguish or cause inconvenience; The firefighters put out the fire quickly. I hope i'm not putting you out by asking you to do this. Тушить, Раздражать
Be put out = be annoyed; She was put out by his bad behaviour. Раздраженный
Put through = connect by phone; Can you put me through to Mr Johns, please. Выполнять
Put up = erect or build or offer hospitality or show in a public place; They've put up a statue in the square. When you are in town, i'll put you up in  my house. The WWF has put up posters all aroubd the city. Строить, Предлагать помощь, Показывать на публику
Put up with = tolerate; I wont put up with such rude behaviour any longer. Терпеть
Go after = pursue; The policeman went after the thief and caught him. Следовать
Go ahead = be allowed to happen; Although several members were absent, the board meeting went ahead as planned. Проходить
Go away = stop or cease; If you take an aspirin, your headache will go away. Уходить (про боль)
Go back on = break a promise/agreement; Although he had promised to help us, he went back on his word. Нарушить обещание
Go by = base one’s ideas on; You shouldn't go by what he says - he always exaggerates. Верить, прислушиваться
Go down  (as) = be remembered for doing sth noteworthy; The president will go down as one of the greatest leaders of our generation. Войти в историю
Go for = attack or apply for  (a job); A big German Shepherd went for my little dog. Why don't you go for this job? You may get it. Атаковать, Устраиваться на работу
Go into = discus; I asked her what the problem was, but she wouldn't go into it until ofter the meeting. Обсуждать что-то
Go off = explode  (bomb) or ring  (alarm); The bomb went off, killing 20 people. When the alarm went off she woke up and got out of bed immediately. Взрываться, звонить (будильник)
Go on = continue or happen or carry on; Go on, finish what you were saying. A lot of people gathered to see what was going on. Продолжать, происходить
Go out = stop burning; Put some coal on the fire before it goes out. Тушить, перестать гореть
Go over = examine detials or go through or repeat; The police went over/through the evidence many times trying to come up with something. Go over the details again please. I wasn't following you. Изучать детали, повторять
Go round = be enough for everyone to have a share or  (news/disease) spread or  circulate or get round; There's enough food to go round. The news went round very quickly.Быть достаточным, распространяться
Go through = experience or be completed with success or discuss in detail;  She went through a painful time when her father died. Has the sale of your flat gone through yet? They went through his suggestions again before making a decision. Испытывать, Закончиться успехом, Обсудить в деталях
Go up = rise (price); The price of petrol went up again yesterday. Вырасти в цене
Go with = match; This top really goes with your skirt. Сочетаться
Go without = endure the lack of sth or do without; Since they had run out of milk, they had to go without. Оюходиться без чего-либо
Take away = remove; May i take away the dirty dishes now. переместить, унести
Take back = apologise; He took back his remarks about her cooking because she was obviously upset. извиняться, брать слова назад
Take down = write down; Can you take down notes during the meeting. записывать, делать пометки
Take for = identify wrongly; Sorry, i took you for your brother I always mix you up. определить неправильно, перепутать
Take in = give accommodation or fully understand or trick or make clothes narrower; Seaside vilogers often take in tourists as paying guests or Now that I've lost weight I should take my clothes in or Did you take in what I said or should I repeat it or My sister is rather naive, she's always getting taken in by other people's lies. приспособиться, обмануть (разыграть), сдалать одежду меньше (ушить), полность понять
Take off = become very successful or remove clothes or  leave the ground or take time as a vacation; Hybrid cars have not been popular, but now they are really starting to take off. Take off this dirty dress ond I'l wash it for you. We saw the plane take off and disappear into the clouds. He took three days off work to go and see his parents. стать успешным, раздеться (снять одежду), оторваться от земли (взлететь), взять время для отдыха или отпуска
Take on = undertake work/responsibility or employ; He took on an extra class as the previous teacher had quit. They decided to take on two extra assistants during the sales period. Выполнять работу, нанимать на работу
Take out = remove or clean  (mark, dirt); The dentist took out my bad tooth. Use this spray to take out the stain. Удалить, очистить  (отметины, грязь)
Take over = gain control of sth or to start being responsible for sth that sb else was doing or working before you;  Shell take over the company when her father retires. Tony will take over the family business when his father retires. Брать под коннтроль, перенимать
Take to = begin a habit or like; I don’t know why she's taken to biting her nails. She has really taken to her nephew and always buys him expensive presents. Завести привычку
Take up = begin a hobby, sport, job or fill; When he retired, he took up saiing as « hobby. This sofa takes up most of the living room. Начать заниматься чем-то (хобби), занимать (пространство)
Turn around = go back in the direction you came from; We forgot our tickets so we had to turn around and go back to the house. Вернуться назад
Turn away = refuse admittance; They tried to enter the place but they were turned away at the door. Отказать в посещении
Turn down = refuse an offer or reduce loudness; He proposed to her but she turned him down. Could you turn down the radio a litle? I can't hear him on the phone. Отказаться от предложения, Сделать потише
Turn in = go to bed or give to the police; Its late and I'm tired, Id better turn in. They turned the fugitive in to the police. Ложиться спать, Сдать в полицию
Turn into = change from one situation to another; When our bags were stolen, our holiday turned into a disaster. Изменить ситуацию
Turn off = switch off; Turn off the oven before you leave. Выключить
Turn out = produce or prove to be; Our factory turns out 100 cars a day. He turned out to be the one who had stolen the money. Производить, Оказаться
Turn over = turn to a new page or change the TV channel; Now children, turn over to the next page. Поменять (стр, канал)
Turn to = go to sb for help/advice or begin  (a way of life or doing sth); When I'm in trouble, | always turn to my family. Why did he turn to drinking in the first place?. Обратиться к кому-то, Начать (жизненный этап)
Turn up = arrive or appear  (unexpectedly) or  (of an opportunity) arise; He finally turned up at the meeting an hour late. When a better job turned up she seized the chance and applied for it. Появиться ни от куда, Подвернуться
Модуль 4
Keep away (from) = stay away; She had to be kept away from school as she had measles. Держаться подальше
Keep back = conceal; How did she manage to keep back her true feelings?. Скрывать
Keep down = cause to remain at a lower level or not eating or drinking without vomiting; The government is trying to keep prices down. When i had the flu, i couldn't keep anything down for two doys. Удерживать на низком уровне, есть или пить без желания
Keep in = make sb stay indoors; The teacher kept us in for misbehaving in class. Заставить кого-то отсаться (как наказание)
Keep off = stay away from; Keep off the benches.The paint is wet. Не подходить близко
Keep on = continue despite difficulties; Although he failed his test he kept on studying end retook it in Mey. Продолжать несмотря на трудности
Keep out = exclude sb/sth; He locked the gate to keep out unwanted visitors. Исключить кого-то
Keep up  (with) = stay at the same level as sb/sth; Despite being i'll he kept up with his work and passed the exam. Держаться на одном уровне
Keep up with = continue to be informed; He reads newspaper every day to keep up with the news. Быть информированным
Give away = reveal or give sth free of charge; Promise not to give away my secret. She gave away most of her Clothes to the poor. Не выдавать, поддерживать
Give back = return; Give me back the money or ill sue you. Возвращать
Give in = surrender or yield; He finaly gave in and admitted he was wrong. Остаться, уступать
Give off = emit  (smells, heat, fumes exc); The radiators give off lots of heat. Выдавать, производить
Give out = come to an end or distribute; Their supplies gave out halfway through the climb. They were giving out free samples of the new shampoo at the supermarket. Заканчиваться, распространять
Give up = abandon an attempt/habit or surrender; He gave up smoking last year and hasn't smoked since. The thieves gave themselves up to the police. Бросить, сдаться
Stand by = support sb, esp in difficulties or be ready for action; I'll stand by you, whatever happens. The army was standing by in case war broke out. Поддерживать кого-то в трудных ситуациях, Быть готовым к действию
Stand for = represent or tolerate or put up with; Do you know what RSPCA stands for? We won't stand for his rude behaviour any longer. Представлять, Терпеть (мириться)
Stand in for = replace sb temporarily; Since John is ill I'll stand in for him tonight at work. Заменить кого-то временно
Stand out = be noticeable; She really stands out wearing that pink suit. Быть заметным
Stand up = rise to one's feet or fail to meet; Stand up and come over here. We were supposed to meet at 11:00 but he stood me up. Встать, Не встретиться
Stand up for = support; You ought to stand up for your friends when people criticize them. Поддерживать
Stand up to = resist; The building has been reinforced to stand up to earthquakes. Сопротивляться
Let down =  (of clothes) lengthen or disappoint; | need to let down my skirt it's too short. He let me down by lying to me. Длина (одежды), Разочаровывать
Let in (to) = allow sb to enter a place; They let us into the room after we showed them our invitation card. Разрешить пройти
Let off = cause a bomb, etc to explode or not to punish; We let off some fireworks for the 4th of July celebration this weekend. The police officer let him off without arresting him. Причина взрыва бомбы, Не наказывать
Let on = reveal a secret; He let on that she had stolen the money. Раскрыть секрет
Let out = release or  (of clothes) make larger; He was let out of prison after 10 years. | have to have my trousers let out; I've gained several pounds. Освободить, увеличить (одежду)
Let up = become less strong; The boats won't sail until the strong winds let up. Ослабеть
Модуль 5
Put across = communicate successfully or get across/over; The lecturer managed to put his ideas across to the audience. Перевозить
Put aside/by = save; He puts aside $50 a month for his summer holidays. Отложить
Put away = store or put sb Into prison mental hospital; Put the toys away in the cupboard. We're expecting guests tonight. The murderer was put away for 10 years. Убирать, Сажать в тюрьму
Put down = write down or take down or criticise or suppress forcibly; Make sure you take down everything said at the meeting. ony is always putting me down and saying i'm not fast enough in sports. The police try to put down rioting at football games. Опустить, записать, критиковать, подавить
Put down to = attribute to; She puts her recent success down to hard work and dedication. Снижать
Put forward = propose; He put forward a new plan to help decrease unemployment. Выдвигать
Put off = displease or postpone; I don't like amusement parks. The long lines really put me off. The meeting was put offdue to the president illnes. Не нравиться, откладывать
Put on = dress oneself in or increase or cause to take place; Put on your coat and come with me. He has put on weight since he stopped working. They are putting on "My Fair lady"on Broadway next month. Надевать, набирать, проводить
Put out = extinguish or cause inconvenience; The firefighters put out the fire quickly. I hope i'm not putting you out by asking you to do this. Тушить, Раздражать
Be put out = be annoyed; She was put out by his bad behaviour. Раздраженный
Put through = connect by phone; Can you put me through to Mr Johns, please. Выполнять
Put up = erect or build or offer hospitality or show in a public place; They've put up a statue in the square. When you are in town, i'll put you up in  my house. The WWF has put up posters all aroubd the city. Строить, Предлагать помощь, Показывать на публику
Put up with = tolerate; I wont put up with such rude behaviour any longer. Терпеть
Look after = take care of; My mother looks after my son when I'm at work. Ухаживать за
Look back  (on) = consider the past; My grandfather likes to look back on his army days. Вспоминать прошлое
Look down on = x  (opp: look up to); She looks down on Steve because he isn’t rich. Не обращать внимания
Look forward to = anticipate with pleasure; I'm really looking forward to my brother's wedding. Ждать с нетерпением
Look in on sb = pay a short visit to; I look in on my mother on my way home. Навестить
Look into = investigate; The police are looking into the case of the smuggled diamonds.Исследовать
Look on = observe; He was just looking on while the other two were playing. Наблюдать со стороны
Look out = be careful Look out! There's 4 car coming. Берегись
Look out for = be alert in order to see/find sb/sth; When you're cleaning the flat, please look out for my silver earring. I lost it somewhere. Быть бдительным, поискать
Look over = examine carefully or go through; The judge looked over the evidence before passing judgement. Изучать внимательно
Look through = look at quickly; Look through these books and see if you want any of them. Быстро проходить
Look up = look for information in an appropriate booklist; Look up her number in the phone book. Искать информацию в источнике
Look up to = admire sb; I look up to my dad because he's a very smart man. Восхищаться
Run across/into = meet/find by chance; She ran across an old friend while on holiday. Встретить, Случайно найти
Run after = chase; The dog ran after the cat. Следовать
Run away with = secretly go away with sb/sth; The thieves ran away with 15,000,000 from the bank. Тайно уйти с чем-то
Run down = knock down  (with a vehicle) or run over or speak badly of sb; The old man was run down/over by a bus. You shouldn't run down your sister; you've got no reason to critcise her. Сбить или переехать (на ТС), Говорить о ком-то плохо
Run off = make prints/copies Can you please run off 100 copies for me?. Делать копии
Run out of = no longer have a supply; We've run out of coffee. Could you buy some when you go out?. Закончиться запасам
Run through = use up it’s unbelievable or rehearse, check or revise quickly; He has run through all his money already. Let’ run through the last scene once more.Израсходовать, Репетировать, проверять, пересматривать
Run up = accumulate; He ran up a huge debt on his credit card which he couldn't pay off. Накапливать
Run up against = encounter  (dificuties/opposition); He ran up against difficulties when he tried to enter the country without a visa. Столкновение (неприятнсть)